# Configuring the taky Data Package Server

NOTE: This document is now deprecated! The necessary directories, and
configuration are generated by `takyctl setup`, and you can run the data
package server with `taky_dps`!

The data package server hosts information uploaded by the clients.

The work on this is very preliminary, and does not yet mirror the full
complexity of a TAK Server. Notably, I haven't figured out how to setup SSL
properly, and the Android client rejects the server (on searching).

## Step 1. Create the Necessary Directories

First, create a directory to store data packages. I like `/var/taky/dp-user`,
so I'll create it there, along with the meta directory. Make sure that
whichever user is running the daemons has write access to this directory!

```bash
$ mkdir -p /var/taky/dp-user/meta
```

## Step 2. Configure taky

Open up your `taky.conf` file in your favorite editor. We'll be editing the
`[dp_server]` section. This is pretty straightforward!

```
[dp_server]
upload_path=/var/taky/dp-user
```

## Step 3. Run the Data Package Server

There are a few ways to run flask applications. My preferred method is with
`gunicorn`. (The self hosting flask app is a little flakey when run in
threaded mode.)

```bash
$ gunicorn taky.dps -b 0.0.0.0:8080
```

If you want to use SSL (though it's broken), run

```bash
$ gunicorn taky.dps -b 0.0.0.0:8443 \
           --ca-certs /etc/taky/ssl/ca.crt \
           --certfile /etc/taky/ssl/server.crt \
           --keyfile /etc/taky/ssl/server.key
```

## Future Work

 * Why is the SSL certificate being rejected?
 * Automate running the data package server with gunicorn?
 * Systemd scripts?
 * Test using the DPS as a broker when devices are not on a local net
